docs: update Instance-level MCP docs (#5161)
n8n-io/n8n-docs: docs/connect/connect-to-n8n-mcp-server.md

## Setting up MCP authentication <a href="#setting-up-mcp-authentication" id="setting-up-mcp-authentication"></a>

In **Connection details**, select **Connect** to open the **Connect a client** dialog. Choose an authentication method from the tabs:

* **OAuth (recommended)**
* **API key**

### Using OAuth (recommended) <a href="#using-oauth2" id="using-oauth2"></a>

On the **OAuth** tab, use the **Your client** dropdown to pick your AI assistant, IDE, or CLI. n8n shows tailored setup steps grouped into:

* **CLI**: Claude Code, Codex, Gemini CLI.
* **Web**: Claude.ai, ChatGPT.
* **IDE**: Cursor, VS Code, Windsurf.

The setup steps depend on the client type:

> * **Web clients** show a **One-click setup** button that adds n8n to the client directly, plus the **Server URL** if you'd rather paste it in yourself.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Web clients** show a **One-click setup** button that adds n8n to the client directly, and/or a **Server URL** to paste in yourself.
```

* **IDE clients** show a one-click install link (where the editor supports one), the **Server URL**, and a manual configuration snippet.

After connecting, the client redirects you to n8n so you can approve access.

#### Reviewing and revoking client access <a href="#revoking-client-access" id="revoking-client-access"></a>

Each connected client only has the permissions you granted it when it connected, for example reading workflows without being able to create or run them. To review or revoke a client's access:

1. Navigate to **Settings > Instance-level MCP**.
2. In **Connected clients**, select **View all**. You should see a table of connected clients, their access level, and when they connected.
3. Select a client's row to open its details and see every permission you granted it, or select **Revoke access** directly on the row to skip straight to revoking.
4. Confirm the revocation. n8n disconnects the client at once; it must reconnect and sign in again to regain access.

### Using API key <a href="#using-access-token" id="using-access-token"></a>

> Use your instance server URL and your personal access token from the **API key** tab in the **Connect a client** dialog. Unlike the OAuth tab, this tab isn't client-specific: it shows the same server URL, token, and configuration snippet regardless of the client you picked.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Settings > Instance-level MCP. 
2. In **Connection details**, select **Connect** to open the **Connect a client** dialog. 
3. Go to the **API key** tab to view your instance server URL and personal access token. 

Unlike the OAuth tab, this tab isn't client-specific: it shows the same server URL, token, and configuration snippet regardless of any specific client.
```

    "--streamableHttp",
    "https://<your-n8n-domain>/mcp-server/http",
    "--header",

>     "Authorization:Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_API_KEY>"

Author: ```suggestion
    "Authorization:Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>"
```

* `<your-n8n-domain>`: Your n8n base URL (shown on the **Instance-level MCP** page)

Run `/mcp` in Claude Code and select **n8n** to complete the OAuth authorization.

**OPTION 2: Authenticate using API key**

Use the following CLI command:

```bash
claude mcp add --transport http n8n-mcp https://<your-n8n-domain>/mcp-server/http \

>   --header "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_API_KEY>"

Author: ```suggestion
  --header "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>"
```

            "type": "http",
            "url": "https://<your-n8n-domain>/mcp-server/http",
            "headers": {

>                 "Authorization": "Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_API_KEY>"

Author: ```suggestion
                "Authorization": "Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>"
```

Here, replace:

* `<your-n8n-domain>`: Your n8n base URL (shown on the **Instance-level MCP** page)

> * `<YOUR_N8N_MCP_API_KEY>`: Your generated API key

Author: ```suggestion
* `<YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>`: Your generated token
```

### Connecting Codex CLI to n8n MCP server <a href="#connecting-codex-cli-to-n8n-mcp-server" id="connecting-codex-cli-to-n8n-mcp-server"></a>

**OPTION 1: Authenticate using OAuth (recommended)**

Use the following CLI command:

```bash
codex mcp add n8n --url "https://<your-n8n-domain>/mcp-server/http"
```

Alternatively, add the following entry to your `~/.codex/config.toml` file:

```toml
[features]
experimental_use_rmcp_client = true

[mcp_servers.n8n]
url = "https://<your-n8n-domain>/mcp-server/http"
```

{% hint style="info" %}
The `[features]` block enables Codex's HTTP MCP client. Older Codex builds require it; newer builds ignore it.
{% endhint %}

Here, replace:

* `<your-n8n-domain>`: Your n8n base URL (shown on the **Instance-level MCP** page)

Run `codex mcp login n8n` to complete the OAuth authorization.

**OPTION 2: Authenticate using API key**

Add the following entry to your `~/.codex/config.toml` file:

```toml
[features]
experimental_use_rmcp_client = true

[mcp_servers.n8n-mcp]
url = "https://<your-n8n-domain>/mcp-server/http"

> http_headers = { "authorization" = "Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_API_KEY>" }

Author: ```suggestion
http_headers = { "authorization" = "Bearer <YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>" }
```

```

Here, replace:

* `<your-n8n-domain>`: Your n8n base URL (shown on the **Instance-level MCP** page)

> * `<YOUR_N8N_MCP_API_KEY>`: Your generated API key

Author: ```suggestion
* `<YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>`: Your generated API key
```

Here, replace:

* `<your-n8n-domain>`: Your n8n base URL (shown on the **Instance-level MCP** page)

> * `<YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>`: Your generated API key

Author: ```suggestion
* `<YOUR_N8N_MCP_TOKEN>`: Your generated token
```
